crates/primitives/README.md, before:

# ethers-types

Fundamental types shared by [reth], [revm], [ethers], and [foundry].

[reth]: https://github.com/paradigmxyz/reth
[revm]: https://github.com/bluealloy/revm
[ethers]: https://github.com/ethers-rs/core
[foundry]: https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry

## Types

- Unsigned integers re-exported from [ruint](https://docs.rs/ruint)
- Signed integers, as a wrapper around `ruint` integers
- Fixed-size byte arrays via [`FixedBytes`]
  - a macro [`wrap_fixed_bytes`] for constructing named fixed bytes types
  - [`Address`], which is a fixed-size byte array of 20 bytes, with EIP-55 and
    EIP-1191 checksum support

## Examples

This library has straightforward, basic, types. Usage is correspondingly simple. Please consult [the documentation][docs] for more information.

[docs]: https://docs.rs/ethers-types/latest/ethers-types/

```rust
use ethers_primitives::{U256, Address, FixedBytes, I256};

// FixedBytes
let n: FixedBytes<6> = "0x1234567890ab".parse().unwrap();
assert_eq!(n.to_string(), "0x1234567890ab");

// Uint
let mut n: U256 = "42".parse().unwrap();
n += U256::from(10);
assert_eq!(n.to_string(), "52");

// Signed
let mut n: I256 = "-42".parse().unwrap();
n = -n;
assert_eq!(n.to_string(), "42");

// Address
let addr_str = "0x66f9664f97F2b50F62D13eA064982f936dE76657";
let addr: Address = Address::parse_checksummed(addr_str, None).unwrap();
assert_eq!(addr.to_checksum(None), addr_str);

// Address with custom chain id
let addr_str = "0x66F9664f97f2B50F62d13EA064982F936de76657";
let addr: Address = Address::parse_checksummed(addr_str, Some(30)).unwrap();
assert_eq!(addr.to_checksum(Some(30)), addr_str);
```

Commit message:

chore: rename to Alloy (#69)
* chore: add `workspace.package.exclude`

* chore: rename to alloy-rs

* docs: update README.md

* docs: update package descriptions

* chore: rename to Alloy

crates/primitives/README.md, after:

# alloy-primitives

Primitive types shared by [alloy], [foundry], [revm], and [reth].

[alloy]: https://github.com/alloy-rs
[foundry]: https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry
[revm]: https://github.com/bluealloy/revm
[reth]: https://github.com/paradigmxyz/reth

## Types

- Unsigned integers re-exported from [ruint](https://github.com/recmo/uint)
- Signed integers, as a wrapper around `ruint` integers
- Fixed-size byte arrays via [`FixedBytes`]
    - a macro [`wrap_fixed_bytes`] for constructing named fixed bytes types
    - [`Address`], which is a fixed-size byte array of 20 bytes, with EIP-55 and
      EIP-1191 checksum support

## Examples

This library has straightforward, basic, types. Usage is correspondingly simple.
Please consult [the documentation][docs] for more information.

[docs]: https://docs.rs/alloy-types/latest/alloy-types/

```rust
use alloy_primitives::{U256, Address, FixedBytes, I256};

// FixedBytes
let n: FixedBytes<6> = "0x1234567890ab".parse().unwrap();
assert_eq!(n.to_string(), "0x1234567890ab");

// Uint
let mut n: U256 = "42".parse().unwrap();
n += U256::from(10);
assert_eq!(n.to_string(), "52");

// Signed
let mut n: I256 = "-42".parse().unwrap();
n = -n;
assert_eq!(n.to_string(), "42");

// Address
let addr_str = "0x66f9664f97F2b50F62D13eA064982f936dE76657";
let addr: Address = Address::parse_checksummed(addr_str, None).unwrap();
assert_eq!(addr.to_checksum(None), addr_str);

// Address with custom chain id
let addr_str = "0x66F9664f97f2B50F62d13EA064982F936de76657";
let addr: Address = Address::parse_checksummed(addr_str, Some(30)).unwrap();
assert_eq!(addr.to_checksum(Some(30)), addr_str);
```
